---
layout: post
title:  "AWS environment security assessment with Scout2"
date:   2014-02-19 07:51:00
post_author: Loïc Simon
categories: tools aws
github_name: Scout2
github_link: https://github.com/iSECPartners/Scout2
---


Security engineers at iSEC Partners are regularly involved in projects that
require assessing the security of an Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment.
Thoroughly reviewing AWS configuration requires poring through dozens to
hundreds of pages in the AWS console, depending on the environment's size. In
2012, iSEC Partners released AWS Scout to help AWS administrators assess their
environment's security posture. Unfortunately, APIs have changed since then,
and the tool wasn't written in a particularly maintainable fashion.

### AWS Scout2

iSEC Partners developed a new, more comprehensive, version of AWS Scout in order
to address its need for an AWS configuration review tool. AWS Scout2 is an
open-source application written in Python that connects to the AWS API and
downloads configuration data for the following AWS services:

* Identity and Access Management (IAM)
* Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)
* Simple Storage Service (S3)

The information gathered is then rendered in an offline HTML report. In
addition to AWS configuration, this HTML report displays a number of security
risks.

### Project page

iSEC Partners is pleased to release AWS Scout2 to the security community. See
the Github repository page for full details on how to download and use the tool:

[https://github.com/iSECPartners/Scout2](https://github.com/iSECPartners/Scout2)
